Architected comprehensive multiagent system with tech stack decisions and infrastructure planning
Architected comprehensive multiagent system with tech stack decisions and infrastructure planning
This is a big strategic decision — let me think through everything I've studied and give you a proper plan of action.

Good. Let me give you the full strategic decision framework — every choice explained with reasoning, then the architecture laid out visually.

Decision 1: Edit or Build New?
Build new. The current codebase has foundational breaks — missing add_messages reducer, wrong HITL pattern, STM/LTM living outside the graph, import crash on startup, dead duplicate code across files. Patching those one by one is harder than a clean start because the fixes require restructuring, not just editing. You keep the reference code as a blueprint, you bring over the good prompts (clarifier, generator, evaluator are solid), and you write the skeleton fresh with the right primitives from day one.

Decision 2: Full Tech Stack Choices
Ollama + which models:

Running locally means you're bottlenecked by VRAM/RAM and single-request throughput (Ollama queues). The right strategy is to use the smallest model that can reliably do the task — not one model for everything.

Use llama3.1:8b for creative writing (LinkedIn generator, style matcher) because it's genuinely better at natural language than smaller models. Use qwen2.5:7b or llama3.2:3b for routing and structured JSON output — these are faster and temp=0 structured output doesn't need a big model. Use nomic-embed-text for embeddings (768 dims, fast, already in the project). Avoid llama3.1:70b locally — too slow, defeats the latency goal.

PostgreSQL — yes, for two things:

LangGraph's AsyncPostgresSaver (conversation checkpoints / STM) and LTM facts table with pgvector for semantic retrieval. You're already using it this way and it's the right call. One database, two purposes, no operational overhead. The checkpointer gives you session history, time-travel, and fault tolerance for free.

Redis — no:

Redis is useful for sub-millisecond caching of hot keys (session tokens, rate limits, leaderboards). In your use case the "hot path" is an LLM call that takes 2–8 seconds — adding a 1ms cache layer doesn't move the needle. It would add a third database to manage locally for no real benefit.

ChromaDB — yes, but narrowed scope:

ChromaDB is correct for RAG over your personal documents (resume, skills files, LinkedIn posts). It's fast locally, persistent to disk, and has proper cosine similarity. Do NOT use it for LTM facts — that's exactly what pgvector in PostgreSQL is for. Keep it for static ingested documents only. The current project tries to mirror LTM facts into ChromaDB, which creates two copies of the same data that can drift. One source of truth per data type.

FAISS — no:

FAISS is a library, not a database. It lives in RAM only, has no persistence, no metadata filtering. You'd need to manually serialize/deserialize the index. ChromaDB uses FAISS under the hood anyway. No reason to use raw FAISS.

Streamlit vs React:

Streamlit is great for demos but has fundamental problems for this project: it's synchronous at the framework level, the async workaround (running a new event loop in a ThreadPoolExecutor) is fragile, it re-renders the whole page on every interaction which causes flicker with streaming, and multi-agent pipelines with HITL forms inside a streaming chat are genuinely hard to get right in Streamlit. You already have a FastAPI server.py — use it. A React + FastAPI + SSE setup gives you proper streaming, clean HITL handling (just show a form, submit answers, stream the continuation), and a UI that won't fight you as you add more agents. For local dev it's just npm run dev pointing at localhost:8000.

Decision 3: Architecture
Here's the full system from the top down.

The core principle: one main graph, each agent "mode" is a compiled subgraph. The main graph's job is just routing and memory bookkeeping. Each subgraph is fully self-contained. Adding a new agent later (email writer, tweet generator, calendar assistant) means adding a new subgraph and one new branch in the router — nothing else changes.

State design: use two-tier state. A shared GlobalState (MessagesState base + memory fields) that persists in the checkpointer. Each subgraph gets its own LocalState (ephemeral fields like linkedin_draft_v1, critique, search_queries) that do NOT go into the checkpoint. This is the key fix — checkpoints should only hold what matters between turns.

LTM design: use LangGraph's store abstraction (InMemoryStore with embeddings for dev, swap to a custom PostgresStore wrapper for prod). Nodes receive store: BaseStore via dependency injection — no external imports, no fire-and-forget threads.

HITL design: use interrupt() inside the clarifier node. The graph genuinely pauses mid-execution at that checkpoint. When the user submits answers, Command(resume=answers) resumes from exactly where it stopped — no re-fetching, no re-running the router.



Now let's zoom into the LinkedIn subgraph since that's the most complex one — it's where HITL, structured prompts, and the multi-LLM pattern all come together.



Now the storage layer — what lives where and why.



Decision 4: Router Design
The current regex router breaks on paraphrasing. But a full LLM router adds 2–4 seconds of latency on every single message. The right solution is a two-tier router:

Tier 1 is a fast exact-match regex pre-filter (< 1ms). If the message explicitly says "linkedin", "write a post", etc. — route immediately, skip the LLM. Cover the obvious 80% of cases.

Tier 2 is a small structured LLM call (llama3.2:3b, temp=0, RouterDecision structured output) only for ambiguous messages that didn't hit tier 1. The model outputs route, confidence, and reasoning. If confidence is below a threshold, default to chat. This costs ~500ms at 3b scale but handles paraphrasing properly.

This gives you sub-millisecond routing for common cases and handles the edge cases where regex fails — without paying the LLM tax on every message.

Full Plan of Action
Here's the build sequence in phases:

Phase 1 — Foundation (build this first, everything else depends on it)

Create fresh project. state.py with GlobalState(MessagesState) using proper Annotated[list, add_messages]. LocalState TypedDicts per subgraph that are NOT part of the checkpoint. config.py (same as now, it's fine). llm_config.py three model tiers. graph.py with build_graph(checkpointer, store) signature — both injected, never hardcoded. get_graph_async() using AsyncPostgresSaver. The memory_inject node reads from store: BaseStore. The memory_update node at the end writes to store and handles STM summarization check.

Phase 2 — Router

Two-tier router: regex fast path → structured LLM fallback. RouterDecision Pydantic model with route, confidence, reasoning. Conditional edges to each subgraph. Design it so adding a new route later is just adding a string to the enum and a new branch.

Phase 3 — Chat subgraph

Simplest subgraph. One node: chatbot. Two-tier web search trigger (regex pre-filter, then execute). LTM context injected from GlobalState. Returns messages update only — nothing else in the checkpoint.

Phase 4 — LinkedIn subgraph

clarifier with proper interrupt(). researcher with asyncio.gather for concurrent LTM + ChromaDB. generator with the numbered fact-list prompt pattern (already good in current code). evaluator with EvalResult structured output (issues as a typed list, not a raw string). style_matcher. The subgraph's LocalState holds all the drafts — they never touch the PostgreSQL checkpoint.

Phase 5 — RAG subgraph

researcher → search_response. ChromaDB personal facts + LTM + optional web. Structured SearchResult output with confidence and source attribution.

Phase 6 — UI

React + FastAPI. SSE streaming from /api/chat. HITL handled as a proper form in React (not a re-render hack). Three panels: chat, LTM viewer, RAG status. No Streamlit.

Phase 7 — New agents (email, tweet, calendar etc.)

Each is just a new subgraph + one new branch in the router. The foundation doesn't change.

The key things to internalize for no-hallucination output: structured output (with_structured_output) everywhere a node makes a decision, the numbered fact-list pattern for the generator so the LLM can't invent what isn't numbered, and requires_citations=True flags flowing from the orchestrator to workers so grounding is enforced at the node level not just hoped for in the prompt.

Ready to start building Phase 1 whenever you say the word.

just for clarification i think linkedin shld have web search also with proper query on wht to search like  personally i think for everythign we're doing router shld first decide if websearch is needed or not and divide in 3 like in blog, close_book hybrid and open_book and as its async other things are happening basically wht this wuld do is if lets say i say generate a linkedin post for 10th rank in irc so now its shld know what irc is with internet and then it'll ask wht was my role in it wht i contributed and so on u get the idea? so research can be done in that way for all basically ofcourse this leads to problem of latency where if i am talking to chatbot it might take abig time but we have to do somehting for it ig also proper query shld be sent during research for that ig one node like i think u get the idea as u have gone through research so i have said my part now tell me wht u think personally im a biggener so i can be wrong on many levels so be unbiased and tell

10:28

Validated router-based web search architecture while identifying latency trade-offs
Validated router-based web search architecture while identifying latency trade-offs
Your instinct is right on the core idea, but let me be completely honest about what works, what doesn't, and where your thinking needs adjusting.

What You Got Right
The ordering insight is the most important thing — web research should happen before the clarifier asks HITL questions, not after. Right now the current project does it backwards: clarifier asks "what was your role?" without knowing what IRC even is, so it might ask the wrong questions. If you search "IRC robotics competition 2025" first and learn it's the International Robot Challenge — now the clarifier can ask specifically "what subsystem did you work on, navigation or actuation?" instead of a generic "what did you do?". That's a genuinely better product. The blog agent's research-before-planning pattern applies here correctly.

The closed/hybrid/open_book classification also makes sense for LinkedIn and RAG, because it determines how much to search and what kind of queries to fire. A post about your feelings on AI = closed_book, no search needed. A post about your 10th rank in IRC = hybrid, look up the event. A post about a company you just joined = open_book, search the company.

Where the Idea Needs Adjusting
Don't apply the router's research classification to chat. This is where I'd push back. For chat, adding a router LLM call + research decision before every "hey what's 2+2" or "explain backpropagation" would add 1-2 seconds to every single message. The chat node already has its own _needs_web pattern internally — that's the right place for it. The router's job for chat should be just "this is chat, go." Let the chatbot decide internally if it needs to search, exactly as it does now.

The query generation shouldn't be a separate node — it should be inside the router's structured output. Adding a dedicated query_generator node means another LLM call in the critical path. Instead, extend RouterDecision to include research_mode and search_queries: List[str] directly. One LLM call, one structured output, you get the route + mode + queries all at once. The blog agent does exactly this — the router node outputs queries as part of its decision, not as a separate step.

What the Revised Flow Looks Like
Here's the honest architecture I'd recommend, thinking through your idea properly:

For LinkedIn and RAG, the router outputs three things at once: route, research_mode, and search_queries. If research_mode is not closed_book, web research fires immediately and concurrently with LTM retrieval. Then the clarifier runs with both the web results AND the LTM context already in hand — so it can ask informed, specific questions instead of generic ones. Then writing happens with everything available.

For chat, the router just routes. No research classification, no query generation. The chatbot node handles web search internally based on its own signal detection. Zero latency added for conversational messages.

The latency concern for LinkedIn is real but acceptable. A LinkedIn post that takes 15-20 seconds total is fine — users expect content generation to take time. A chatbot that takes 6 seconds to reply to "hey" is not fine. So you keep the fast path for chat and accept the longer pipeline for LinkedIn where quality matters more than speed.

One Thing You're Missing
The query generation for LinkedIn needs to be smart about what to search. Raw user input makes a bad search query. "Write a post about my 10th rank in IRC" → terrible query. The structured output from the router should extract the subject and generate specific queries: "IRC robotics competition format teams", "International Robot Challenge 2025 ranking system". That's the part that needs careful prompting — the router LLM should be instructed to generate 2-3 tight, factual queries about the event/company/topic, not about the post itself.

Revised Architecture for the Router
RouterDecision:
  route: "linkedin" | "rag" | "chat"
  research_mode: "closed_book" | "hybrid" | "open_book"  # only meaningful for linkedin/rag
  search_queries: List[str]  # empty for chat and closed_book
  reason: str  # for debugging
Then in the graph:

router → 
  if chat: → chatbot (handles own web search internally)
  if linkedin/rag + closed_book: → clarifier/researcher (no web search)
  if linkedin/rag + hybrid/open_book: → web_research (concurrent with LTM) → clarifier/researcher
This is one extra LLM call for LinkedIn/RAG (the router at 3b model = ~300ms), one web search (2-3s, fires concurrently with LTM), and then the rest of the pipeline. Chat adds zero extra latency compared to what you have now.

Your instinct about web research informing better clarification is correct and worth building. The refinement is just: keep chat's latency clean by not applying this pattern there, and fold query generation into the router's structured output instead of making it a separate node. You're not wrong — just needed the boundaries drawn more precisely.

